Before we get started looking into all sorts of error messages,
let me just say nobody writes perfect code all the time.
As you practice more,
you will get better at getting it right,
and also will get better in interpreting the error messages to find what went wrong.
Typos are probably the simplest errors to identify,
so let's just start there.
We will use the usual sparkify log file with this streaming service records in it,
let me just important.
As you probably remember,
this log file contains records about
our music streaming service and what our users did here.
So for example, the first record is about someone listening to a song.
Let's check a few typos.
Let's say we would like to take a look
at all the records that belong to a particular user ID,
user ID 1046 in this case,
but let me just leave out a layer here.
May be incorrect method name,
may get a short and sweet attribute error
saying that the DataFrame object has no attribute wher.
If we take a column name incorrectly,
let's say son instead of song,
you're going to get a much longer error.
It is an analysis exception where the query planner
explains how it could not find a column name given the schema of our DataFrame.
So we have these input columns,
our third registration, gender, auth,
firstName, and it can't find our column son here.
Not all typos are created equal though.
Method names are case sensitive.
So let me just type where with capital W here.
You will see we get the same attribute error as before,
but if I type user ID for example with capital I and capital D, no error.
I can even select from this log DataFrame the user ID column, still no error,
and count how many times that we see
this particular UserID and the query just runs without any issues.
So while we used ID with capital D here,
so for there to be lowercase D, no error occurred.
Let's try to add a new column to original DataFrame now.
Now, this is a scary error message. It's really long.
If you just glance at it,
you'll see that if we wanted to use the artist column.
The error message says that we have an artist's column.
So this might be a little bit confusing.
If we look closer though,
you realize that the artist here is
just a reference to where this DataFrame was coming from,
and its columns indeed have no artist among them.
So what has happened here?
Well, we did leave an S out.
Be careful how you name your variables.
Simple typos like this can cause a lot of headaches.
As we discussed earlier,
while Spark supports Python API,
its native language is Scala.
That's why some of the error messages are referring to Scala,
Java, or JVM issues even when we are running Python code.
Let's see an example.
I'll try to do a self-join on logs DataFrame and collect it.
We got an error message that says,
"java.lang.OutOfMemory error: Java heap space."
What this means is that we ran out of memory.
As you can see, the error message reference's Java heap
because our application is running on the JVM.
Let's just state the first five records of this joint.
Whenever you use collect,
be careful how much data are you collecting back to the driver.
Let's take a look at what happens when we use the right function names.
They are just not the functions we met.
In a separate DataFrame,
let's create the records about listening to
songs and then calculate the total lengths each user has listened to.
So here's the sounds DataFrame.
The first record is indeed about listening to a song.
Let's import a SQL functions and then calculate the number we were interested in,
so the sum length for user ID.
The sum lengths of the songs a particular user ID has listened to.
The golden arrow here.
Column is not iterable.
The problem is that while we imported the PySpark SQL function,
this sum we are referencing here is
not the same function that can operate on the DataFrame columns.
So if we do the import in the frame here,
then we get a syntax error.
So we need to add S as well.
If we reference now the correct SQL function of the sum,
then we will get the sum lengths for each user ID.
As a last example in this video,
let's look at another syntax error that happens when
we don't properly close all the parentheses we have opened.
So I just deleted this one.
Let's see what happens.
We get a syntax error,
unexpected end of file while parsing.
So this might look like something new referencing.
End of the file maybe our input file,
but this is just about this particular cell as this little arrow shows us.
So it was just not expecting for
the command to be over yet because we haven't closed all of our parentheses.
If I put a parenthesis here,
we get a different error,
so we need to make sure that it's in the right location.